[[!meta description="The drive each way between Singapore and Kuala Lumpur during Chinese New Year was 11 hours of pain. Don't do it."]]

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Regret not going to Woodlands. Held up on Malaysian side of Tuas. 😅 <a href="https://t.co/ehOeRNVzLe">pic.twitter.com/ehOeRNVzLe</a></p>&mdash; Kai Hendry (@kaihendry) <a href="https://twitter.com/kaihendry/status/695851282603470848">February 6, 2016</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

So since we didn't make travel arrangements in advance for <abbr title="Chinese
New Year">CNY</abbr>, I drove to <abbr title="Kuala Lumpur">KL</abbr> from
Singapore on the 6th of February 2016 and returned on the 9th.  It was hell on
earth.

The main issue was the land border crossing. I knew this would be a problem,
but I [wrongly heaped the blame on Singapore's ICA in this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vGKbvzA2IYM).

Though my request still stands, there needs to be some metric for which border
crossings can be judged, so bottle necks & delays can be identified and
resolved.

# Issues crossing from Singapore at Tuas (aka second link)

It shouldn't be a surprise at all that the Singapore side was fast & efficient
letting cars through to Malaysia. So when once we crossed the causeway we were
in a massive 3 lane queue to Malaysia's checkpoint. There were a number of
issues:

* the two right most lanes were moving the slowest
* the left lane and emergency lane (also the domain of buses) were moving fastest
* at times the lanes were unclear
* it got so hot and there are zero facilities
* we inched for 3 hours
* emergency lane was constantly abused and not enforced leading to temperatures rising
* when we got to the Malaysian booths only a fraction of them were operating
* some of them were operating more in the left lanes instead of the right ones
* this explains a lot why some lanes were moving so slowly compared to others!

I had the feeling after getting our documents checked finally that the
Malaysians authorities just didn't care. Our Malaysian immigration officer
asked how long we waited; We replied three hours. And she was sympathetic..
"yes, this is **Chinese New Year**". I refrained from blurting back, why not
better manage this fiasco by treating lanes equally and getting more staff on
duty!?

I could have crossed at Woodlands instead of Tuas, but I had no idea in advance
which Malaysian side was processing cars quicker. Again it would be awesome if
there some API to measure the progress. If I was going to do the Tuas crossing
again, I would almost definitely use the left most or emergency lane since it
was flowing, unlike the middle lane I was stuck in.

# Issues crossing from Johor to Singapore

Sadly the second day of CNY on Malaysia roads down from KL were not as
uncongested as I was hoping. <http://plus.com.my/> administer the toll
roads and do provide some real time information about congestion, but since
there is basically just one road, you can't really act on this information. If
there was some historical information, I could have maybe made alternative
plans not to drive down when I did!

The main screw up was actually **Google maps as we approached the junction
between Woodlands or Tuas**. At first it recommends Tuas and then recommended
Woodlands. I think it does this on the basis of the red line congestion on the roads.

We heeded its advice and went to Johor Bahru, but the Woodlands entrance was
completely jammed. We couldn't even enter the queue!! Google maps was reporting
an orange line for a queue that simply was **not moving**. So we wasted at
least an hour and ending up turning back to Tuas!! To make matters worse when
we navigated to Tuas Checkpoint, **Google Maps redirected us back to
Woodlands**!! We had to navigate to Tuas from the overview screen!!

At Tuas, once again the familiar jam, with confusing lanes and zero
enforcement. I think it took about 2 hours of inching forward in the darkness
to cross. Once again far too many stalls were unmanned.

My recommendation to the Malaysia side:

1. Keep more stalls manned (tracking this would be good!)
2. Keep it fair by disallowing cars from using the emergency lane

Bonus points:

* Measure throughput

The drive each way between Singapore and Kuala Lumpur during Chinese New Year
was 11 hours of pain. Don't do it. Information provided by both Singapore and
Malaysia is insufficient.
