>Dear Mark Field,

>I wrote to you last April regarding immigration policy and I was
>grateful for your encouraging reply. The good news is my girlfriend is
>with me and we have both enjoyed two weddings in Europe.

>Nonetheless I am writing to you about the conduct of the UK border
>agency. On both occasions I was upset by the questioning and treatment
>of my girlfriend by the UK border staff. I witnessed it by standing
>with her in the All passports queue.

>Last night in LHR Terminal 5 was particularly unpleasant where American
>children were being sick after such a long wait, Russian English
>students were being treated incredibly badly for not filling in some
>form and my witnessing of perhaps at best a border staff "having a bad
>day".

>I tried complaining on the UK Border Agency Website today, but you
>can't seem to make the complaint anonymously and without filling in
>some Word document. May I please encourage you to make the border
>agency more accountable. To begin with, staff should have their
>names/id clearly printed on their uniform. I would like to go so far as
>allowing the recording of conversations by members of the public, so
>there can be some evidence in proceedings.

>Yours sincerely,

The <a href="http://s.natalian.org.s3.amazonaws.com/2011-07-01/reply.png">reply</a>:

>Thank you for your email regarding the poor level of service your partner
>received from UK Border Agency officials at Heathrow's Terminal Five. I was
>pleased to read that your girlfriend has now been able to rejoin you in the UK.

>I was very sorry to learn that UK Border Agency officials failed to conduct
>themselves in a courteous manner when your partner was processed through
>customs. I should like to confirm that I have written to the Acting Chief
>Executive of the UK Border Agency asking him to take note of your negative
>experience. Border security must be robust, especially given that the current
>threat level from international terrorism is set at severe, but that does not
>excuse officials from treating those passing through customs with due respect
>and courtesy.

>Thank you for taking the time and trouble to raise this matter with me. I
>shall, of course, be back in touch as soon as I receive a response.
