[[!meta title="Fast development iterations: PHP versus Serverless"]]
[[!meta description="A comparison between LAMP and Serverless"]]

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/eRY0Iay7Los" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

I [sell "serverless"](https://goserverless.sg/) by advertising its fast
development iterations. Typically less than five seconds on a primed system.

With a CI/CD system spinning up the environment, downloading source, building,
testing, and deploying.... about [3
minutes](https://travis-ci.org/unee-t/invite). A lot faster than any Docker
driven system which is pretty much the norm currently.

# But PHP is faster

My colleague pointed out that PHP iterations are fast.

* You rsync the *.php to the VPS host
* Boom you're done!

Iterations are indeed less than a couple of seconds (well, as fast as the
rsync!), but unlike serverless, this <abbr title="Linux, Apache, Mysql, PHP">LAMP</abbr> method is considered antiquated (by
myself, warning I'm biased) for several reasons.

# Why serverless is better

1. PHP requires an always running VPS
2. PHP requires a lot of additional complexity, a Web server as modules which can easily be out of sync with your local environment
3. The underlying system running PHP probably needs to be maintained, unlike serverless
4. PHP can't scale very well compared to the seamless nature of serverless
5. if PHP is compromised the underlying VPS is much more of a prize than a short lived serverless process
6. PHP's logging is often not properly exported and queriable like serverless good practice
7. Rsync isn't (really) an immutable deploy, AWS API gateway for example properly (blue/green) switches from one version to another, and facilitates rolling back

# Why PHP (on a VPS) is better

* No cold starts
* It's fairly easy to host yourself, no cloud provider needed

# Conclusion

<strike>Tbh I am not 100% sure why [PHP is not
supported](https://github.com/apex/up/issues/18) on Lambda. Perhaps it's not
cleanly exposing a request/response interface? Maybe it's runtime is too heavy? </strike>

Update: <https://bref.sh/> works on Serverless via **AWS Serverless Application Model**.

Nonetheless things have moved on since PHP. There are better languages. Golang
as a language is better in a whole host of ways (greatly reduced surface area)
and is well supported as a serverless runtime.
