I've always wondered if government tax departments like
[HMRC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HM_Revenue_and_Customs) or the
[IRS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internal_Revenue_Service) could pry into my
personal or business bank accounts. Just to make sure company returns (reports)
were accurate and if I'm paying the right tax.

Obviously this would be a huge privacy infringement if they could without
"probable cause" or warrant. It would be just as invasive as being able to read
my email. With stronger metadata to show **where I am** and my "capabilities"
(my money!) if you will.

Now after chatting to an anonymous accountant, he's informed me since 2009 US &
European banks by order of their governments have made every transaction
**trace-able**.  Why? **Strict anti-money laundering**, **"War on terror"** and
recent efforts of **clamping down on the unscrupulous practices of the banking
industry** (it's government money that bailed out the banks after all).

Now I've yet to see Snowden-esque concrete proof of this _privacy infringement
of Western governments viewing Western bank accounts_ claim.  Though I find it
shocking if true.

Furthermore, I'm told that Singapore does not participate in this dragnet and
therefore there is **private banking in Singapore**, and this is why it's such
a popular financial hub. Again, I've yet to find proof that this is true.

Even **if** there was private banking in Singapore, I'm told that in order to do
business with US banks you must release data (what that is exactly, I don't
know). Therefore even if you had your banking privacy, the minute you interact
with an US/EU the bank, your privacy might have to be given up by your bank!

Most people I've spoken to involved in the financial industry are resigned
("it's hopeless!"), or take the "I've got nothing to hide" argument or complain
that people are just zombies and won't understand the **grave consequences**
until too late.

Nonetheless I'm writing the blog in the hope that people can hopefully gather
evidence and information about these banking privacy violations. Right now it's
hearsay on my part. I like to think that if a country like **Singapore came out
and affirmed that it respects the privacy of business** in their country, then it
would make it an _even more_ attractive place to do business in.

Sidenote: I had the thought that maybe everyone's financials dealings should be
public, like Tax records IIUC in Norway. This transparency would catch out
[corruption](http://www.wsj.com/articles/malaysia-probe-says-it-has-found-documents-tied-to-alleged-transfers-to-premier-1436018753),
however I can't help but feel it's too much of a slippery slope. Ultimately
governments (although largely incompetent & susceptible to leaks) control the
information flow and that's far too much power in one place.

Update: I've since discovered this topic is called "Bank Secrecy". I've changed
the name of the blog from "Private banking in Singapore", which means something
different: an arrangement with a bank where you are given personal care of your
financial assets.

* <http://www.rodyk.com/usermedia/documents/Rodyk_Reportersept14-Business%20Bulletin%201.pdf>
* <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bank_secrecy>
