[[!meta title="Mens shopping in Seoul" ]]
[[!meta date="2009-01-05 05:45:11" ]]
<p>My shopping experiences until recently have been abysmal in Seoul. Here are some tips.</p>

<p>For your Calvin Kleins and other brands there are a bunch of &#8220;Factory outlets&#8221; at <strong>Gasan Digital Complex</strong> on the 7th line. The shops are hidden behind a huge store and it&#8217;s a good 5 minute walk from the station. I can&#8217;t really explain the location, so er&#8230; good luck finding it. The prices are sadly quite high compared to home. I don&#8217;t like shopping here, but this is were you get the brands like Levis et al. Sometimes they don&#8217;t have my size for 35/36 waist which is painful!</p>

<p>For tailored <strong>suits</strong> Itaewon has probably the best range. I bought my suit from the more expensive place &#8220;Saville Row&#8221;, as I am uncomfortable with cheaper tailors. Expect to pay at least 300USD for a tailored suit. 400USD for a better one. Choose Korean &#8220;Samsung&#8221; fabrics. Quality is good. You can get tailored shirts made up with 100% cotton fabrics for about 60USD. In big department stores you can find good ready-to-wear stuff for half the price. But tracking down good cotton shirts and English speaking sales assistants can be tiresome.</p>

<p>For <strong>basics</strong> I recently discovered a Korean store <a href="http://www.uniqlo.co.kr/"><span class="caps">UNIQLO</span></a>. One good branch can be found in the <strong>LotteMart</strong> complex at the station Jamsil on line 2/8. It&#8217;s on one floor up from the ground floor. LotteWorld has a pleasant lake and theme park nearby, so you can make a day out of it. <span class="caps">UNIQLO</span> is not that expensive and the fabrics are <strong>good</strong>. Sadly their socks suck. Polyester mixes. Socks should always be 100% cotton with perhaps a tiny bit of lycra in them.</p>

<p>For socks and other really good quality and designed items, the ground floor has a small branch of <a href="http://www.mujikorea.net/">Muji</a>. Muji is worth the trip alone, but it is <strong>expensive</strong>. There are other little stores around in the complex and they&#8217;re reasonable on a teacher&#8217;s budget. LotteWorld at Jamsil is definitely the place you want to go for your clothes shopping missions.</p>

<p>For shoes there is a <a href="http://rockport.com/">Rockport</a> dealership in Itaewon. But they often don&#8217;t have my size UK10 and the prices are high compared to the Internet and my purchases of similar Rockport products elsewhere abroad. I think I will just try order some over the Internet and pray.</p>