[[!meta title="Will rural living ever be convenient?"]]
[[!meta description="City living versus Countryside living seems one sided"]]

tl;dr labour and transport sucks in Countryside. Will that ever change?

I was raised in a suburb and my parents later retired to a small holding in
Cornwall. As an Internet obsessed geek, I've gravitated to cities for better
Internet. Though city living offers much more... scale.

* Easier to maintain a home if it's a block of flats
* Easier to provide essential services like electricity and water
* Easier to get around (thanks Uber/Grab/GoJek). No need to drink and drive.
* Easier to take deliveries of online shopping
* Easier to go out and eat decent cuisine from around the world (and other live entertainment)
* Easier to find help to get things done
* Easier to enjoy well maintained facilities like swimming pools or badminton courts

So I am left thinking.. will rural living ever be popular again?

# What's good about rural living?

* Quiet
* Less pollution
* Better air quality
* Better for kids
* Less people / neighbours / inconsiderate people
* Having lots of space
* Being able to go on varied walks / outdoor adventures
* Better access to super high quality local ingredients, although it can be rather limited

# What's not good about rural living?

* Poverty
* Loneliness
* Crap Internet
* (Quality of) people who didn't make in the city (or rather who didn't leave their rural area for some <abbr title="Overseas Experience">OE</abbr>) / expand their horizons
* Crime
* It's much harder to lock up and leave a small holding for a holiday, than say a flat
* Terrible infrastructure and facilities
* Requiring the initiative to do most things yourself
* Impossible to source cheap labour despite the average local complaining about foreigners

# Could there be innovations / developments that make rural living better?

Besides survivalist doomsday scenarios, a general exodus of people out from the
city in reality would be awful. Where would hundreds or thousands of people
live in the countryside? There are no infrastructure.  Resulting camps would be
a disgrace.

I am pretty excited about **self-driving cars**. Getting around rural areas
after socialising is a huge problem.

I am not that confident about agricultural innovation. I'm more of a drive
costs down, increase yield person than a retarded lets use primitive methods,
charge a lot for the product and call our products organic, person. You need
**capital and scale** for modern farming. AFAIK many Cornish/English/[European
farms](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_Agricultural_Policy) have failed to
advance and mostly require government handouts to survive.

Everything is gravitating to be more centralised and right now the force feels
unabated. I am looking for the **best in both worlds**, city and rural living,
but just getting between them as a nuclear family is a total pain in itself.

The lacking component that I find sorely missing in the countryside which I
noticed after living in Singapore, is lack of labour. Singapore's work permit
system, allowing employers to hire willing workers for about 500SGD a month is
a life changer.
