Every major city has its own renting horror stories. I've rented all my life,
and I must say our recent move in Singapore had points of note. Lets start with
most annoying:

# No standard contract (or deposit scheme)

Contracts are often one sided, copied and pasted from somewhere and basically
not seen or properly analysed until a **letter of intent** is done. Lets just
say the basic Singapore contract is not consumer friendly, much like any buying
experience in Singapore. For example a typical landlord's contract states: if
you are renting for two years and if you don't like the place, you basically
can't get out of it. Rationale is the agent/landlord are preventing you from
renting some place cheaper in the next two years.

What's the **letter of intent** aka [Goodfaith Deposit (booking
deposit)](http://www.singaporeexpats.com/guides-for-expats/procedure-for-rental.htm)?
That's an initial deposit made by you the tenant to basically put a block on
the property for a week. You should get the deposit back if negotiation of
finer points of the contract fail (e.g. you might want to negotiate diplomatic
/ break clause, right to sublet), but that's often not clear at all either.

Update: I've come to notice <https://www.case.org.sg/pdf/Model%20Tenancy%20Agreement.pdf> [Backup](http://s.natalian.org/2015-05-06/Model%20Tenancy%20Agreement.pdf). Section 9c and (removing) 6c is of interest to me.

# Agents & agents

In Europe you typically deal direct with the Landlord.

In Singapore, you generally always deal via agents.

If you are very unlucky you can go through TWO agents. I.e.:

* (your) agent who found the property for you
* the landlord's agent who represents the landlord

Typically an agent's fee is half month for a one year lease. A friend of mine
actually got done for twice for agent fees.

If you manage to negotiate an early termination clause, typically agents will
pro-rata bill their fee in to you, the tenant, since landlord's do not want to
pay it.

I guess it's just a cultural difference here in Singapore. Landlord's seem very
hands off and greedy which is very worrying. Have PLENTY of patience for a
negotiation and take the initiative and WRITE DOWN WHAT YOU WANT. Do not let
them write down the clause if possible. Even it goes your way, it's not unusual
for it to be re-negotiated again and again since they have the control over the
words.

# Racism

Yes, racism is legal in Singapore. Basically if you are a foreigner / expat you
might not get access to HDB properties (quota system). Other than that, Expats
are largely treated as fair game by property agencies and landlords. The
reverse can be true, 'Ang mohs' might get preferential treatment. It just feels
a bit weird to me.

Also realise that most Singaporeans don't rent. Only foreigners do. The odds
are not in your favour.

# Finding a property

There is <http://www.propertyguru.com.sg/> where most agents list & dotCom
darlings like <https://www.99.co/> basically just plot their data on a map.
<https://keylocation.sg/> is a good site if you are relatively new to Singapore
and you are looking to minimise your commute. Singapore is quite strange in the
sense that even fairly central places can be VERY difficult to commute from due
to no or poorly placed bus lines or SMRT links.

In practice these services are very far from comprehensive and you end up
constantly dealing with very little information and if you're organised, your
own spreadsheet. For example layout plans are very rare. It's only when you
have taken the trouble to make an appointment with an agent and time off you
can actually figure out what they mean by "two room".

Forget doing stuff efficiently asynchronously over email. Tip: Try to get the
landlord's email / telephone without the agent involved, since agents are often
slow down the entire process.

## Some random tips I am throwing in here

Many landlords view the deposit as a way to refresh their apartment’s paint and
curtains every 2 years or so. So **take a lot of pictures** as you move in.
Some expats honestly advise simply not paying the last month's rent.

Agreements often state that if an item above ~150SGD needs repair, the landlord
pays. Though some agreements are quite shifty in the sense that if your fridge
dies, you need to pay the first 150SGD or the landlord only pays 150SGD.
