[[!meta title="Hangover" ]]
[[!meta date="2004-06-14 17:32:53" ]]
<p>England lost. :/ I really didn&#8217;t get much sleep last night. I am stressing over my exam tomorrow.</p>

<p>In the morning I did go to the Millennium Technology Conference (Day 2), and watch a couple of panels.</p>

<p>First one was on data communications and one thing that stuck out most of the 4 speeches was this fella Keen who said were moving from a Text to a vision to a voice interface.</p>

<p>I say the voice interface is pooh. Maybe this is my backlash for stupid voice answering phones.</p>

<p>With text you can:<br />
* Use it even in noisy environments<br />
* Read it fast, read it slow<br />
* Skip over portions, skip back<br />
* Index and search<br />
* Manipulate in countless ways<br />
* Translate<br />
* Capture, by means of easily recording and therefore transcribe<br />
* It&#8217;s more accessible to deaf and blind people<br />
* Pipe, redirect in Unix<br />
* Convert to any medium<br />
* And so forth (there must be more)</p>

<p>Second panel was quite interesting. About making molecular production systems. Drexler really stood out. An economist gave a talk summing up why there has been so much progress in the 20th century. It&#8217;s because with Intellectual Property and patents. It&#8217;s because people with ideas have had the means to meet people with money, but with no ideas. Hmmm&#8230; I should have dared to ask him if he thinks the system is now horribly abused (software).</p>

<p>After the 3 hours I was absolutely shattered. I feel disappointed with myself for being so out of it, and for not asking any questions. But it&#8217;s almost rude to ask questions with all those old Finns about. Jeepers.</p>

<p>So I have come home. Had some sleep, and will now study survey statistics. I have missed a panel with <span class="caps">TBL</span> and Tim Sebastian, which I a bit gutted about. And tonight there is a &#8220;white tie&#8221; dinner at the City Hall. I don&#8217;t a have a white tie.</p>

<p>Generations apart.</p>