Unlike any other franchise I know of, I am a concerned the way Toyota allows
their centres to operate without impunity.

Toyota's customer charter suggests a 12 step arbitration process in case of
complaint in a
[PDF](http://www.toyota.co.uk/bv/1024downloads/Customer_%20Care.pdf).

At first it says complain to the centre in question and then it asks to
complain to the relevant trade association! It does not seem to have a central
customer service department like other franchises.

I'm reluctant to complain on behalf of my neighbour to Parklands Toyota,
because Parklands Toyota I believe to be at fault.

My neighbour has a three year old Toyota RAV4 with 20k miles on the clock. The
third service out of warranty tackles an internal fault (which my neighbour
knew about shortly before the service) that the vehicle had trouble doing high
acceleration. Of the total service charge 613GBP, a new "governor kit" of
205GBP was told to fix the problem.

When picking it up, the mechanic claimed it is better than it was. That's
untrue, at best it's just the same. The mechanic then said the **turbo** is
probably at fault and he quoted ~900GBP for a new turbo. ~350GBP for a
refurbished one.

When returning to complain a different mechanic said it's actually the turbo
and "governor kit" at fault. The next mechanic then verbally quoted ~750GBP for
the refurbished turbo! We are very confused about the two different quotes.

Why should a "turbo" go wrong at 20k?! My neighbour is a pensioner and really
cannot afford ~1000GBP on erroneous charges, hence I would like to complain
directly to Toyota HQ on his behalf.
