[[!meta title="Information Technology Program at HSE" ]]
[[!meta date="2003-06-09 08:41:22" ]]
[[!tag finland business]]
<p>About a week ago, I stepped out of Lidl in a busy Kontula and caught a glimpse
of something falling out of a man&#8217;s back pocket. I was surprised to see it was
a considerable bundle of cash, as he was disappearing into the crowd. I picked
up the cash, and ran after him, returned the money into his hands and turned my
back to catch a bus home. I have that same feeling about the choice I made
right now. Finally I have left the 15 credit (1 credit = 40 hours of work)
course <a href="http://itp.hkkk.fi/"><span class="caps">ITP</span>.</a></p>

<p><a href="http://itp.hkkk.fi/"><span class="caps">ITP</span></a> is a course run under the <a href="http://www.hkkk.fi/english/">Helsinki School of Economics.</a> In many ways <span class="caps">ITP</span> is a reflection of
e-business industry today: Still a lot of bullshit.</p>

<p><i>The teaching:</i></p>

<ul>
<li>The <a href="http://www.cgey.com/"><span class="caps">CGEY</span></a> &#8220;Brown Paper Technique&#8221; took the piss
Presentations were poor (powerpoint drivel) </li>
</ul>

<ul>
<li>Lectures unbalanced (Where I was told not to ask questions during class) </li>
</ul>

<ul>
<li>Exam a joke (Very high marks, and hmmm&#8230; did anyone fail?)  </li>
</ul>

<ul>
<li>Mandatory 35EUR reading material was a bunch of printed powerpoint slides </li>
</ul>

<ul>
<li>The way Information Technology is dealt with as a whole by the course is very
very naive.  Simplistic management models (with <a href="http://dabase.com/e/05008/"><span class="caps">GARTNER</span></a> data) in conjunction with a <a href="http://www.rhsmith.umd.edu/is/vvenkate/">very biased Microsoft slant (The soon-to-be VP of Microsoft Business Affairs)</a> to every
technological matter did not win brownie points with me either. </li>
</ul>

<p><i>The project with a company:</i></p>

<p>Probably the most controversial. Firstly the <span class="caps">NDA</span>:
The <abbr title="Non Disclosure Agreement">NDA</abbr> is marked confidential.
That means I can not consult a lawyer say to decipher the legal dialect of this
document. That for a start is silly. Next issue was the section:
&#8220;Confidential Information shall not include any information which, as
demonstrated by the Recipient by written evidence&#8221;.  Written?  Evidence?
Oh please! I know their &#8220;secret&#8221;, and I can tell you that every
single element of it is already in the public domain. So what is the point?</p>

<p>Next the part where I have to basically not to make use of any of this
publicly available information/technology for the next 5 <span
class="caps">YEARS</span>.  Otherwise&#8230; wait for it. Face damages of <span
class="caps">TWO</span> <span class="caps">HUNDRED</span> <span
class="caps">FIFTY</span> <span class="caps">THOUSAND</span> <span
class="caps">EUROS</span>. I also love the bit where it says &#8220;The Parties
acknowledge that monetary damages may not be a sufficient remedy for a
breach&#8230;&#8221; and allows any other means to screw me. After I repeatedly
voiced my concerns about the <span class="caps">NDA</span> to the course
organizers, I was finally told by Sonera staff that a consultant signed it, so
I should have no problem with it.</p>

<p>Oh dear. So briefly there is no need for the <span class="caps">NDA</span>. Or at least for this
extremely broad one. <u>A student should not have to be under this sort of
threat when taking a course.</u> A <span class="caps">NDA</span> for me flies in the face of what an open
and sharing learning experience should be.</p>

<p>Companies &#8220;sponsoring&#8221; <span class="caps">ITP</span> do not do so for reasons like contributing back into
society and any other charitable reason.  No, they do quite the opposite. They
unethically use students to do &#8220;research&#8221; for them. Frankly this is business
malpractice. TeliaSonera for example wanted my team to call 27 organizations in
order to scout out the market for them.  Yes, they suggested we call them with
their supplied <span class="caps">SIM</span> cards. They too suggested we announce ourselves as &#8220;Helsinki
School of Economics students&#8221;, and not correctly as TeliaSonera. They even went
as so far as to tell us the questions and what order to present them to our
interviewees. This is why they want us to sign NDAs. <strong>Market research.</strong> The
study we conduct is for the sole use of TeliaSonera.  Again contrary to the
academic learning principles of sharing information. I for one, did not intend
to do cold calls for a E-business project when I took this course. My team is
not the only one. A friend of mine on the <abbr title="Network Technologies">NT</abbr> track has to
interview people on the street for an <span class="caps">ITP</span> sponsoring company. Shameful.</p>

<p>This sort of research should be bought via legitimate avenues. Not by
cheating the 27 organizations and more importantly not by cheating <span class="caps">ITP</span>
students.</p>

<p>Today I have dropped this 15cu course, which I intended to
complete my minor in order to graduate. I have taken shitty courses before, but
this time I have a choice.  Although I could have run with the money/credits,
and let me tell you it was a lot of money (I don&#8217;t know why some guy carried so
much cash) and 15cu is a <span class="caps">LOT</span> of credits here in Finland. I like that incident
in Kontula feel now that I have made the right moral choice of action. I pray
you agree, otherwise comments are very welcome. Goodbye <span class="caps">ITP</span> colleagues.</p>
