Excuse me, I think I have turned into a cynical miserable bastard. When I first
installed Debian on my laptop I was full of enthusiasm. Same goes for when
Ubuntu came about. Though with 10.04 installed recently on my new X201 i7
Thinkpad, I am wondering are things getting better?

Thinkpad hardware issues aside, Ubuntu admittedly does the install process
extremely well. The initial layout of a Lenovo laptop looks like

1. recovery 10GB
2. main bit 400GB
3. hibernation 50GB

The automatic one resized the hibernation partition for Ubuntu to sit in a
~20GB partition. Bit lame, thankfully the advanced setup allowed me to set it
up like so:


	hendry@x201 ~$ cat /proc/partitions
	major minor  #blocks  name

	   8        0  488386584 sda
	   8        1    1228800 sda1
	   8        2   98008789 sda2
	   8        3   10240000 sda3
	   8        4          1 sda4
	   8        5  375000064 sda5
	   8        6    3905536 sda6

With sda5 being my ext4 root and sda my swap.

# No Gnome thanks

Gnome is a fucking abomination. Sadly installing dwm and executing `sudo
update-alternatives --config x-window-manager` wasn't enough to restore sanity.

I had to remove gdm and now every time I boot Ubuntu, it seems to think X has
crashed. Next problem is plymouth or whatever the fuck their crazy splash
system is. `/sbin/plymouthd` now consume resources constantly in the background
and trying to uninstall it make Ubuntu basically want to uninstall everything.

Whose bright idea was that?

Next problem I have is sound is working. Thinkpad bears the most boring common
HDA Intel sound card, yet sound doesn't work and `alsaconf` does not exist on
Ubuntu. _Sigh_
