I am **very** grateful to have been treated free of charge by the NHS today in
Cornwall.  I had a really good experience, however I feel I should document some
parts of the process which perhaps could be improved.

I dealt with a:

1. day nurse at Bodmin Hospital
* paramedic
* ambulance paramedics
* nurse at Truro hospital
* doctor at Truro hospital

At **every stage** I iterated my symptoms and allergies and such. At each stage
they seemed to have a different pile of paperwork and almost start from scratch
each time. Perhaps they were checking what I said the previous X times, as I
was afraid to say "why are you asking me again and again??!, don't you have
the paperwork?" I suspect the information was **not** being effectively passed
down the chain!

The [South West Ambulance](http://www.was.co.uk/) vehicle was surprisingly
uncomfortable, despite being a 10 plate (2 years old) Mercedes. Thankfully the
paramedics were really nice.  Experiencing speed bumps in the back of ambulance
was just crazy.

I'm not a medical expert but for detecting a heart attack the
[ECG](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electrocardiography) machine seemed pretty
important. I was on an ECG all the time except for at Truro hospital's A&E
department, where I was on one momentarily before the machine was surprisingly trollied off
to another patient.

I thought there should be an ECG machine at every bay in A&E, and they 
seem to lack any history. At first the ECG printout did look interesting, but
by the time I got to the hospital the doctor didn't seem to have that print
out. Surely it would be sensible for that entire history of the ECG throughout
the day be available on an iPad or something?!

The A&E had some sort of queueing system on a large display in the staff area
but the patients were oblivious to this. I spent 4 hours waiting for a blood
test and chest X-ray, and some more time for a doctor to analyse the results I
think. As a patient it's nice to know how long things might take. Luckily I
*just* had some 3G coverage and some battery power so the 4+ hours of waiting were just about
bearable, but there were no sockets or
wireless Internet on offer.

Last but not least the hospital design seemed to suffer from
[SBS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sick_building_syndrome). Laying back on a
trolley bed staring into white lights and ceiling tiles was nauseating in itself. The
sound acoustics were discomforting and the curtains between bays felt
ineffective. I don't know what the funding for this hospital is, but I thought
it could definitely do with a thoughtful design upgrade.

As it turns out I'm perfectly healthy! So my initial [Angina-like
symptoms](http://www.nhs.uk/Conditions/Angina/Pages/Symptoms.aspx) were a false
alarm.

I'm very pleased and thankful for the NHS service, though I'm thinking of how
to help them to make the experience feel a little smoother in the information
age. :)
