[[!meta title="Democracy's downfall"]]
[[!meta description="South Africa and the UK has exposed some weaknesses in Democracy to me"]]

# South Africa

Since the majority black population won the right to vote, the ex-terrorist
<abbr title="African National Congress">ANC</abbr> party, "the liberation
party" won the majority of the electorate.

ANC has since led South Africa to ruin, yet the majority still vote for them.

Why?

One theory is the ANC effectively bribes their voters with <a
href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Department_of_Social_Development_(South_Africa)#Grants_crisis">social
grants</a>, making almost 20 million South Africans dependent on it. The
[opposition party won't guarantee this
handout](https://www.da.org.za/campaigns/social-grants-crisis), and rightly so.

However if you are dependent on this handout, you will not bite the hand that
feeds you.

Add ANC's socialist manifesto, with further emboldens the destitute and you
have a recipe for ruin.

# UK

Since the surprise Brexit vote, [democracy feels
broken](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9YmdzgJAMxk) in the UK.

There wasn't much of a choice to begin with, between <span style="color: white; background-color: red; padding: 0.1em; font-weight: bold;">Labour</span> and the
<span style="color: white; background-color: #00aeef; padding: 0.1em; font-weight: bold;">Conservative party</span>. Though the Brexit event has seemingly pulled down the curtain on
the inept political class.

Could there be another choice that galvanises the electorate? Doubtful when the
"third party choice", the <span style="color: white; background-color: #faa61a; padding: 0.1em; font-weight: bold;">Liberal Democrats</span> took a deal with the Conservatives
which ravaged their credibility.

Power and politics is so calcified in the UK, that I don't see anything
changing. The traditional media which the "powers that be" control are having a
really hard time connecting with the population.

I hope devolution continues to dissolve power from Westminster and Whitehall.

# Conclusion

Small competitive states which is advocated by libertarian philosophy seems the
path forward for me. They need not be democracies.
