[[!meta title="Glossary in Latex" ]]
[[!meta date="2004-06-04 12:25:47" ]]
<p>Glossaries list difficult or specialized words with their definitions. In <span class="caps">XHTML</span> that&#8217;s acronym <a href="http://diveintomark.org/archives/2002/12/30/the_tag_soup_of_a_new_generation">(not abbr)</a>.</p>

<p>I can&#8217;t help but use strange terminology in my profession, although I think it is important to explain myself as well. Often I lose track of the meaning of acronyms I use every day.</p>

<p><span class="caps">BTW</span> acronyms, abbreviations and glossaries all mean the same things to me right now.</p>

<p>It took me a while, but I managed to add a glossary to my texed thesis.</p>

<p>I used nomenclature package as it was installed on my system. <a href="http://www-h.eng.cam.ac.uk/help/tpl/textprocessing/">GlossTeX</a> wasn&#8217;t.</p>

<p>You need:</p>

<pre>
\usepackage{nomencl}
\makeglossary
\renewcommand{\nomname}{Glossary}
</pre>

<p>In the top of your latex source. Somewhere between \documentclass and \begin{document}.</p>

<p>Then you should make definitions of terms when you use them in your document:</p>

<pre>
\nomenclature{BTW}{By the way}
</pre>

<p>Then right down at the bottom before your bibliography definition.</p>

<pre>
\addcontentsline{toc}{section}{Glossary}
\printglossary
</pre>

<p>Finally you need to throw in something like:<br />
<pre><br />
makeindex $(FILENAME).glo -s nomencl.ist -o $(FILENAME).gls<br />
</pre></p>

<p>Into your Makefile. Usually I would have put this super tip into my <a href="http://dabase.com/tips/">Tips&amp;Tricks</a>, but this blog seems to get much better google treatment. Perhaps I will move the tips someday here to blogland.</p>