[[!meta title="Copy and Paste" ]]
[[!meta date="2006-04-02 21:31:37" ]]
[[!tag desktops firefox Debian]]
<p>The main thing that makes the <a href="http://ask.slashdot.org/askslashdot/04/06/02/1832201.shtml?tid=104&amp;tid=189">Unix Xorg platform so broken is copying and pasting.</a></p>

<p>I&#8217;ve seen this rear its ugly head as I&#8217;ve been teaching someone about the Debian platform. I like to teach how to search for answers and then copy in samples to try. That&#8217;s so <strong>hard</strong> to do on Debian with poor skills it&#8217;s not funny.</p>

<ul>
<li>The &#8220;middle click&#8221; for pasting or pressing left and right mouse buttons together is completely brain dead</li>
<li>When clicking to focus on another window in windowing environments like <span class="caps">KDE</span> or Gnome, it is very easy to accidentally select text (or rather whitespace) and lose the important information in the clipboard</li>
<li>Selecting text in a link in Firefox is broken. Try copy some text from this <a href="http://dabase.com/">list</a></li>
<li>Pasting into vim? Now spend a couple of minutes cleaning up white space and reformatting</li>
<li>The <strong>Shift+Insert</strong> shortcut! Who came up with that? You need <span class="caps">TWO</span> <span class="caps">HANDS</span> to do that.</li>
</ul>

<p>I&#8217;ve seen it written somewhere that &#8220;Copying and Pasting&#8221; is the single most productive element of everyday computing.</p>

<p>The <strong>real</strong> <a href="http://faq.dabase.com/faqw.py?req=show&amp;file=faq04.036.htp">Unix way of copying and pasting</a> doesn&#8217;t use a mouse and it&#8217;s far too difficult for average users.</p>

<p>This makes me even more convinced that the Desktop should just be the Web browser (Firefox) where <span class="caps">CTRL</span>+C/V/X &#8220;sort of&#8221; works&#8230;</p>