[[!meta title="Singapore is better than London"]]
[[!meta description="Singapore's quality of life is much better than London's"]]

I lived in London for about two years. I started in Mile End E3 and ended up in
Marylebone in W2. Now I live in Singapore where I'm much much happier.

Three major things I noticed about London in my recent trip (with a baby & stroller):

1. Uber is not a good way to get around. The average speed of a vehicle in
   London is terribly low. Now add the toxic mixture of everyone being on their
mobiles, road works & unplanned roads to the mix.  Any decent cyclist can
outrun a vehicle in London.  Uber in Singapore is affordable, direct, fast and
massively convenient.

2. Use public transport I hear you cry! The London Underground is dirty &
   antiquated compared to Singapore's SMRT. I know
[Crossrail](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crossrail) is due to come online any
year now, but it seems far behind Singapore's scope and vision.

3. London has remarkably high pollution. I am not sure where it comes from, but
   I can certainly feel it. Forget about escaping it in the dusty tube.
Singapore's air is much cleaner. Though we were lucky not to have [any haze
from Indonesia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Southeast_Asian_haze) this year.


There are many other reasons why Singapore is better, such as the 🌞 weather &
the fact that 4G actually works, even in the underground public transport
system.

London is an amazing top tier city and I feel lucky to have lived there, though
don't be afraid to leave. I can testify that the quality of life in Singapore
is much better. <abbr title="Your milage may vary">YMMV</abbr>.
