[[!meta title="Workers day" ]]
[[!meta date="2006-05-01 13:00:45" ]]
[[!tag Travel china business]]
<p>Ok, sorry for the missing update yesterday.</p>

<p>I rented a bike again and went out to the &#8220;Temple of Heaven Park&#8221;. The park is gigantic and there isn&#8217;t that many flowers, so it was quite exhausting. Later I went to a nearby market.</p>

<p>The market was rubbish really. You had to bargain and the goods are all counterfeit. I had a good look at the wares and the copies were terrible. Really disappointing. So I didn&#8217;t buy anything. Downstairs there is a bit of fish market. Since my stint as a fishmonger in Helsinki, I&#8217;m always curious about fish markets. They had some strange oxtongue sized shell fish I&#8217;ve never seen before. Also quite a few turtles. I felt a little sorry for the turtles, though perhaps I&#8217;ll change my mind after a turtle soup.</p>

<p>Then I got crazy lost. It turned out I was on the opposite side of the map I thought I was. The locals had to tell me several times where I was on the map, because I didn&#8217;t believe it at first. After an hour I managed to find the Tienanmen square landmark and make my way back to the hostel.</p>

<p>My throat then and still does feel like it has a hairball tickling it. The pollution is now reaching critical mass inside my body. For the first time I was missing Seoul. Though Seoul isn&#8217;t the cleanest place on the planet, at least my apartment can be.</p>

<p>I joined a group of Hostel dwellers for dinner. A German guy who speaks Chinese took us to a really good restaurant. I sampled several delicious dishes, drank several beers and the bill was 20juan per person! The problem I had with Chinese meals before is that I was eating alone. You need at least 3 people to seriously enjoy Chinese dining.</p>

<p>Then I went out for a foot massage at a strange parlour complex. There were a millions employees there. I said &#8220;Nee How&#8221; thousands of times. A shocking thing were all the girls were very well presented. I got a serious foot massage. I was whining whilst other patrons were fast asleep. I became a little conversational and then I received complaints that I was distracting the masseurs! Scandalous.</p>

<p>I had a couple of thoughts yesterday. Firstly most goods are copies in China. They&#8217;re famous for making copies of garments and DVDs etcetera. Perhaps I am extra sensitive to this stuff, but when I pick up a paper, I can&#8217;t help but notice articles detailing efforts to enforce &#8220;Intellectual property&#8221;. I really don&#8217;t see this happening. I am hoping the Chinese government has the sense to work around it, despite the obvious free trade investments.</p>

<p>Another thought of mine are the foreigners here. Different class. You&#8217;re no joke if you&#8217;re representing your country out here in Beijing as a diplomat. And if you&#8217;re a businessman, in all likeliness you are probably making <strong>big</strong> deals here.</p>

<p>Today is &#8220;Workers Day&#8221;. Loads of Chinese Red Flags are flying and it&#8217;s quite a nice day for Beijing. Sadly there doesn&#8217;t seem to be any organised marches or tanks or aircraft flybys. Goddamn! Many stores are still open surprisingly. I thought I should hoard beer for today. In a few minutes, I&#8217;ll head down to Tienanmen square and see if there is anything going on.</p>