An update on 1.5 years ago with
[[archives/2013/06/14/Why_Singapore_Internet_sucks]]. This is in the context of
<a href=http://hackerspace.sg/><abbr title="Hackerspace
Singpaore">HSG</abbr></a>.

HSG is stuck with M1 until **2016-02-09**, since we were connected after 3+
month delay due to OpenNET 'capacity issues' on 2014-02-10.

(The other day I heard of a company waiting FIVE MONTHS for an OpenNET connection)

## Switching cost far too high

Locked into a recurring two year contract. We tried to switch but M1 said we
renewed per contract which as a Hackerspace we were unaware of (until it was
too late) and we can't get out of. To compound the issue, we are unable to
upgrade from 100Mbps to 1Gbps IIUC until 1 year has elapsed of our recurring
contract.

Update: 930SGD pcm for 1Gbps Internet <http://s.natalian.org/2014-11-25/M1-quote-1Gbps.pdf>

## Business versus residential line cost

Same service, 2+ times price difference, that's if you can get a clearly priced
business package. Usually it has to be negotiated down from some crazy price.

## Singapore ISPs have no status page / no accountability

{M1,Singtel,Starhub} do not have a status page like <https://aastatus.net/> or <http://status.aws.amazon.com/#AP_block>

We never know what service quality we are getting, whether it is getting worse
or better. (International) Bandwidth is another matter entirely which seems
variable and opaque.

## No static IPs / IP allocation service / IPv6

Making home/office hosting dependent on unreliable dynamic IP aliasing...
Therefore any reliable Internet service is forced to _centralise_ onto "the
Cloud" which is [usually much more
expensive](http://dabase.com/blog/How_much_does_it_cost_to_run_an_Archlinux_mirror_on_EC2/)
despite what <abbr title="Amazon Web Services">AWS</abbr> et al would like you to believe.

# Conclusion

As a Hackerspace we are locked for years with uncompetitive Internet and we are
unable to reasonably host any project at the Hackerspace.

We are forced to beg for Cloud credit and we are unable to run anything
bandwidth intensive.
