So I'm attempting to migrate my emails from Gmail to <https://www.fastmail.fm>.

Why? I don't like the privacy implications with Gmail and especially the new
[Gmail Compose UI](https://twitter.com/NewComposeSux).

So I signed up for a Fastmail trial and the thing that bothers me is that you
don't get support unless you pay. But I don't want to pay until I know I can
successfully "on board" to Fastmail.

	PLEASE NOTE that we can *not* provide technical support to guest and
	member-level accounts; if you require technical support (other than
	billing/pre-sales support) with one of these accounts please click
	Options and then Upgrade Account to upgrade to Full, Enhanced or
	Premier level.

Sadly [fastmail do not do customer service over twitter](http://greptweet.com/u/kaihendry/#fastmail).

The first annoyance I ran into is the ridiculous default fastmail footer, which
I promptly removed. To those who have the same footer as defined your From:
address. You're an idiot.

Next more serious issue is the **Migrate IMAP** UI wasn't friendly. Initially I wrongly used imap.google.com instead of imap.gmail.com and this message confused me:

	Could not connect to remote IMAP server SSL imap.google.com: Invalid
	argument at /home/mod_perl/hm/ME/ImapMigrate.pm line 269.

The Gmail seemed to refuse access to the account because it came from a New
York IP. This was eventually resolved, but it took some time. It's a bit
unnerving that Fastmail is hosted in the US, though I wrote to
privacy@fastmail.fm asking about it and they say although the <abbr
title="National Security Agency">NSA</abbr> can physically seize their
hardware, they would have to go through Australian law to access your account
through Fastmail.

# After "Migrate IMAP"

So this is a "one-time only action" and it doesn't do anything clever like
keeping your emails in sync with Gmail. So if I don't switch my forwards, my
emails will get more out of sync as everyday passes.

While the "Migrate IMAP" is happening, it looks rather strange, emails are
constantly being injected into the DOM. However once this "one time" process
finishes, I **can't find my Gmail labels/folders of my mail**!

# No addressbook migration :/

I expected Fastmail to migrate the addressbook. But it doesn't. And it doesn't
seem to gleam email addresses from my Gmail migrated mails. So now I'm
wondering how to [move my addressbook from Gmail to
Fastmail](https://www.fastmail.fm/html/?MLS=SU-*&STZ-TH=b054c299&STZ-TI=363101&u=148c411e&MSignal=TZ-**362785*48d2e245)

# Support replies not by email

If you get a reply from support, you will be shocked to see **DO NOT REPLY TO
THIS EMAIL. REPLIES WILL NOT BE MONITORED.** in their email body. You need to
click the link to use another form to reply. Weird.

The [password field on support tickets is also quite
jarring](http://s.natalian.org/2013-08-22/1377141130_1366x768.png) to me. I
should be logged in already!?
