[[!meta title="Down Under" ]]
[[!meta date="2005-08-15 19:18:06" ]]
<p>I am touring Australia from tomorrow. Canberra, Sydney and up the coast to warmer climes.</p>

<p>My return flight to Bangkok has to depart from Melbourne, so I&#8217;ll be back. I have been offered another 3 month contract though I am unsure whether I can do another 3 months in Melbourne. It is boring here!</p>

<p>I might buy a second hand Nikon D70 for 1200AUD tomorrow. You can almost get that camera new for that price in the UK. Hmph. I was thinking of getting a 1G Iriver <span class="caps">USB</span>, but they&#8217;ve sold out. Oh well.</p>

<p>My thinkpad&#8217;s <span class="caps">PSU</span> packed up and I tried to get a replacement from where I bought it. They said I had to go to <span class="caps">IBM</span>&#8216;s website etc. and they will pick it up and replace it by courier. They said it would take 4 working days but that&#8217;s ridiculous. I&#8217;m on the move and I don&#8217;t have a fixed address. I ended buying another <span class="caps">IBM</span> thinkpad <span class="caps">PSU</span> for 90AUD. So if I get the faulty one replaced I&#8217;ll have two.</p>

<p>It is a bit of crazy situation the way warranties work nowadays. I&#8217;ve read about horror stories were people bought an Ipod from a store and it didn&#8217;t work out of the box. The store then refers them on to post their faulty Ipod to Apple. I mean give me a break. I don&#8217;t have the time. Last time I posted off a faulty DeathStar I invalidated my warranty as I didn&#8217;t read the small print. I had to pack it in at least 2 inches of foam.</p>

<p>Assholes.</p>