[[!meta title="Why I live in Singapore 2020"]]
[[!meta description="Living in Singapore in the year of the Coronavirus"]]

I feel like I need to revisit [Why I live in Singapore](/2019/04/13/Why_I_like_Singapore/) in 2020.

COVID-19 has highlighted that:

* Social gatherings limited to 5 when you are a family of 4 means no socialising
* Singapore is too small
* No Changi Airport or travel options are completely isolating
* Feeling vulnerable as a <abbr title="Permanent Resident">PR</abbr> aka foreigner
* Feeling disenfranchised despite paying taxes
* Watching fault lines open in the economy
* Noticing Worker permit holders conditions need improving/investment
* Feeling privacy evaporate every time I check-in with SafeEntry
* How do I see my future in Singapore? Where do I retire?
* <abbr title="Working from Home">WFH</abbr> is actually [really challenging when your wife/kids are in the mix](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C0WpPxMQT_I&feature=youtu.be)
* Singapore's <abbr title="Central Business District">CBD</abbr> with its empty commercial property is quite a downer

# Planning to stay

Despite my complaints, we have resolved to stay. Why?

#1 Reason is that we rely on our live-in helper to take care of our kids.
Obviously when our young children are both in full time education in ~5 years,
things could change.

If we moved back to Europe, my wife feels she would not be able to cope with
work, cooking, the home and kids. Tbh I prefer to work on my computer or my
cameras than doing household chores too...

As a child, I was looked after by a wonderful Zulu woman helper in Natal, and
my Malaysian wife had a similar upbringing, with an Indonesian helper.

# Economy

We are actually pretty lucky that we still have jobs. I am also confident
Singapore will bounce back quicker, opportunity is still here.

# Bureaucracy

Tbh moving to Europe, or even for me to go live in Malaysia would be
problematic with visas and residence permits. I don't have a strong appetite to
wade through the government bureaucracy. And tbh, losing Singapore residency
would suck. We are super comfortable living in Singapore, it's our home, our
base.
