I anticipated that this might be difficult, so I called Barclays beforehand to
ensure my Debit card would work for a start and then I get the best rates.

They advised I use only [Global Alliance atms](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Global_ATM_Alliance).

So whilst in Italy, I sought out the BNL atms, which was a little awkward at
times. Time was wasted.

# Problem 1 - no idea how much my withdrawal limit is

I want to withdraw a large amount of EUROs to minimize the transaction fee. Unfortunately it didn't allow me to withdraw 500EUR.
Or 400EUR.
So in order not to upset the person behind me, I reached for the 250EUR mark.


	-£209.00
	Cash Withdrawal
	ITALY
	AMOUNT IN EUR 250.00 ON 25 MAY VISA FX RATE 1.231981 FINAL GBP AMOUNT INCLUDES NON-STERLING TRANS FEE £6.07 ATM

# Problem 2 - fixed % fee of I don't know what

Yikes, that's a 6GBP fee.

It gets worse:

	-£251.87
	Cash Withdrawal
	ITALY
	AMOUNT IN EUR 300.00 ON 28 MAY VISA FX RATE 1.22669 FINAL GBP AMOUNT INCLUDES NON-STERLING TRANS FEE £7.31 ATM

There is a fixed percentage, ontop of these bad GBP-EUR conversions.

	£176.27
	Cash Withdrawal
	ITALY
	AMOUNT IN EUR 210.00 ON 31 MAY VISA FX RATE 1.226989 FINAL GBP AMOUNT INCLUDES NON-STERLING TRANS FEE £5.12 ATM

I called up Barclays to complain, and they say they advise holiday makers to bring cash. [Post office cash](https://twitter.com/kaihendry/status/469150973685145600) at 1.16 EUR to the GBP isn't a lot better.

I can't get the credit card deals <http://travelmoney.moneysavingexpert.com/>
recommends since I'm self-employed. One can get better deals by ordering EUR
cash in advance in England, but it involves a rigmarole. What a PITA. Times
like these I'd rather UK have the EURO.
